README.md, before:

## Latest News Update

No longer recommend Ubuntu Server to run MB2 on and best to run it on Debian.
I will be making another install scripts for Fedora or Arch based systems.

## Changelog 

1. Now everything is included under the one install with 7 options.
2. install.sh renamed to aptinstall.sh for Debian based systems
3. default.json.example and discord.json.example are there for examples
4. Launching with mbii command with discord.json not filled out will load RTVRTM service twice
5. The OpenJK binaries and engine will no longer be downloaded, mbiided.i386 is now the current default engine
6. RTVRTM have been been fixed and now working due to secondary maps in default.json.example not found on server
7. Added a Pre-CTF installer before 1.9 for those who don't want the CTF
8. The rtvrtm.py has been updated from Python2 to Python3. 
9. Dotnet 6 SDK updated from 3.11

## Movie Battles II EZ

MBIIEZ is a python wrapper for running instances of Movie Battles II. 
The wrapper acts as both a CLI (Command Line Interface) as well as a Web GUI for managing instances. 

In a sense, you should not need to edit server configs, RTV/RTM configs, understand installing any of the components needed to run an MBII server. Using the WebGUI to manage everything instead and basic JSON config files. 

## V1.7.2+ of MBII

Doing some testing after this new update. 
IF you get an "invalid entitystate" error after re-running "install.sh" to update and then trying to connect. 
It seems the official updater is not updating correctly. 

I was able to fix this by 
- Manually copying all MBII files from my local computer using WinSCP 
- renaming `jampgamei386.nopp.so` to `jampgamei386.so` (and original to `jampgamei386.old`) 

You could also completely delete your MBII folder `/opt/openjk/MBII` and let install.sh completely reinstall MBII

Reported the bug with their updater to the MBII Devs
Install.sh has been changed to always re-download the latest updater binaries. 

## Features
- Simple to use Web GUI 
- Simple CLI for running automated commands
- Plugin System for creating additional plugins 
- Included plugins include 
- - Auto Server Messages, Unlimited rotating service messages  
- - RTV/RTM, integrated as a plugin  
- - Discord Bot, allow certain roles in your discord channel, to restart instances, change map, kick players, etc

## Installing

- Clone this repo into your home directory using `git clone` 
- Run `chmod +x install.sh` on the installation bash script
- Run `./install.sh` which will install all required depedencies
- Amend the mbiiez.conf file to ensure paths are correctly set to your MBIIEZ path
- Installation is a simple step by step process
- Movie Battles II is downloaded automatically, as well as the most recent build of OpenJK For Linux

## Updating
- Re-Run install.sh to automatically grab any updates to depedencies, MBII etc
- You can get the latest version of this repo by re-cloning it

## Adding Base files

The only manual work you will need to do is copy the base files into the directory `/opt/openjk/base` 
These files include
- asset0.pk3
- asset1.pk3
- asset2.pk3
- asset3.pk3


## Instances
"Instances" are a single game servers. Most modern virtual servers or bare metal servers can support a number of instances running together. These instances will normally have a name. such as **open** or **duel**. Each instance will have a different port number

## Creating an Instance

All that is needed to create an instance is to create your own instance json file located in the `config` folder of the project. There is a template file already included in the config file.

The format is very easy to understand. (Easier than the OpenJK Server Config Files)

Edit the file and make any changes to the config which you want. Should you make any mistakes in the formatting. The server will not start and will warn you about JSON errors. 

Ensure the port you use in the config file is one you have not already assigned to another instance otherwise the program will have trouble monitoring and RTV/RTM will not work as the game will automatically assign it a different port. 

You need to also ensure any ports you do use are forwarded correctly and no firewall is blocking them

## Using the CLI

the CLI Enables simple commands to be executed against an instance. Most actions are in this format

`mbii -i [Name of your instance] ACTION`

There a number of actions that can be used when specifying an "instance" 

#### start 
start an instance
#### stop
stop an instance
#### restart
restart an instance
#### status
show stats such as players, the map, uptime, port, ip 
#### say [message] 
executes svsay on the server
`mbii -i dueling say "Hello Everyone"` would say "Server: Hello Everyone"
#### rcon [rcon_commands]
`mbii -i legends rcon "myrconcommand argument"` would send this rcon command to the server
#### cvar key value
You can change CVAR values or just see what the value is using cvar command, for example 
`mbii -i open cvar g_authenticity 1` would change the mode
`mbii -i open cvar g_authenticity` would print the current the mode

## Plugins

Plugins allow for new functionality for a server to be built as a seperate python script and added to the server. 

A plugin has access to the instance that is running it and could be used to, for example. Do a certain action when a command is said by a user, or once every 2 minutes. 
It can even be used to do actions on the server based on external factors, such as coming from discord.

Plugins must be enabled in the config section, must have a number of additional config options need to be added to the config. Any plugin can request additional config information. The Example server json has the RTV plugin enabled by default. 

leaving your plugin line in config as `"plugins":{},` will disable all plugins

### Events

Plugins can "register" actions against events. For example, the plugin will have a method called "register_events" and adding a line such as 

`self.instance.event_handler.register_event("player_chat_command", self.say_hello)`

Will, if the plugin is enabled on an instance, call the method within the plugin `say_hello` when a user in game does a chat starting with `!` 

Some events come with additional arguements that you can use.  Here is a current list of events plugins can use, They come in a dictionary object as the first arguement

|Name|Arguements  |Description |
|--|--|--|
|before_dedicated_server_launch| None |  Runs before dedicated server starts
|after_dedicated_server_launch | None  |   Runs after dedicated server starts
|new_log_line                  | log_line | Log File changed
|player_chat_command           | message, player, player_id | ! prefix chat 
|player_chat                   | type, message, player, player_id | any and all chats, type is either TEAM or PUBLIC 
|player_connects               | player, player_id |  A new player connected
|player_disconnects            | player, player_id |  A player disconnected
|player_killed                 | fragger_id fragger, fragged_id, fragged, weapon | A player was killed
|player_begin                  |  player,player_id | A player entered the map (once per round, not per life)
|map_change                    |current_map, new_map|


### Services

You can also register services in your plugin. These are methods you want to start as a seperate process and for them to persist while the instance runs. Otherwise methods are only called when events happen. This allows you to potentially create your own events. 

For example using 
`self.instance.event_handler.run_event("my_custom_event",{"type": "NEW", "message": message, "player_id": player_id, "player": player}) `

The process handler will automatically start your service, and shut it down when the instance is stopped by keeping track of its PID. 

## Database

A small SQLite database is used to store ALL log lines, all kills, keep track of services, and keep track of player connections in a way that persists. 

For this reason the database can be used by external processes to query this information, or in a plugin, if for example, a discord bot wants to show when the last time a given player connected. 

Usablity is limited as there is no way beyond a name, to track a player between connections. 

## Get Involved
This is still a little rough round the edges, i am NOT a full python dev, if anyone is interested in doing further development on this or pushing pull requests into this thats all fine with me. 

### Still to do

Many things

- [ ] Re-Write the install file to be better and handle quicker updates without re-checking depedencies + get updates from github
- [x] Make process handler auto restart a failed service unless instance is being stopped
- [x] Make process handler auto restart instances at a given time rather than using crontab
- [ ] Create service checking for MBII updates, and doing update when all servers are empty. 
- [x] Create the Web GUI
- [ ] Web to create, and edit server.json files
- [x] Web to show database logs
- [ ] Web to handle bans
- [ ] Web to handle plugins
- [ ] Web to start / stop / restart instances

Commit message:

New install and updated readme

README.md, after:

## Latest News Update

A new installer to support both Debian and Ubuntu systems. You must run these under your user than other root and have sudo permissions.
Shoutout to the MBII development team (Defiant) for helping me out with a small dotnet update issue.

## Changelog 

1. Now everything is included under the one install with 7 options.
2. install.sh renamed to aptinstall.sh for Debian based systems
3. default.json.example and discord.json.example are there for examples
4. Launching with mbii command with discord.json not filled out will load RTVRTM service twice
5. The OpenJK binaries and engine will no longer be downloaded, mbiided.i386 is now the current default engine
6. RTVRTM have been been fixed and now working due to secondary maps in default.json.example not found on server
7. Added a Pre-CTF installer before 1.9 for those who don't want the CTF
8. The rtvrtm.py has been updated from Python2 to Python3. 
9. Dotnet 6 SDK updated from 3.11

## Movie Battles II EZ

MBIIEZ is a python wrapper for running instances of Movie Battles II. 
The wrapper acts as both a CLI (Command Line Interface) as well as a Web GUI for managing instances. 

In a sense, you should not need to edit server configs, RTV/RTM configs, understand installing any of the components needed to run an MBII server. Using the WebGUI to manage everything instead and basic JSON config files. 

## V1.7.2+ of MBII

Doing some testing after this new update. 
IF you get an "invalid entitystate" error after re-running "install.sh" to update and then trying to connect. 
It seems the official updater is not updating correctly. 

I was able to fix this by 
- Manually copying all MBII files from my local computer using WinSCP 
- renaming `jampgamei386.nopp.so` to `jampgamei386.so` (and original to `jampgamei386.old`) 

You could also completely delete your MBII folder `/opt/openjk/MBII` and let install.sh completely reinstall MBII

Reported the bug with their updater to the MBII Devs
Install.sh has been changed to always re-download the latest updater binaries. 

## Features
- Simple to use Web GUI 
- Simple CLI for running automated commands
- Plugin System for creating additional plugins 
- Included plugins include 
- - Auto Server Messages, Unlimited rotating service messages  
- - RTV/RTM, integrated as a plugin  
- - Discord Bot, allow certain roles in your discord channel, to restart instances, change map, kick players, etc

## Installing

- Clone this repo into your home directory using `git clone` 
- Run `chmod +x install.sh` on the installation bash script
- Run `./install.sh` which will install all required depedencies
- Amend the mbiiez.conf file to ensure paths are correctly set to your MBIIEZ path
- Installation is a simple step by step process
- Movie Battles II is downloaded automatically, as well as the most recent build of OpenJK For Linux

## Updating
- Re-Run install.sh to automatically grab any updates to depedencies, MBII etc
- You can get the latest version of this repo by re-cloning it

## Adding Base files

The only manual work you will need to do is copy the base files into the directory `/opt/openjk/base` 
These files include
- asset0.pk3
- asset1.pk3
- asset2.pk3
- asset3.pk3


## Instances
"Instances" are a single game servers. Most modern virtual servers or bare metal servers can support a number of instances running together. These instances will normally have a name. such as **open** or **duel**. Each instance will have a different port number

## Creating an Instance

All that is needed to create an instance is to create your own instance json file located in the `config` folder of the project. There is a template file already included in the config file.

The format is very easy to understand. (Easier than the OpenJK Server Config Files)

Edit the file and make any changes to the config which you want. Should you make any mistakes in the formatting. The server will not start and will warn you about JSON errors. 

Ensure the port you use in the config file is one you have not already assigned to another instance otherwise the program will have trouble monitoring and RTV/RTM will not work as the game will automatically assign it a different port. 

You need to also ensure any ports you do use are forwarded correctly and no firewall is blocking them

## Using the CLI

the CLI Enables simple commands to be executed against an instance. Most actions are in this format

`mbii -i [Name of your instance] ACTION`

There a number of actions that can be used when specifying an "instance" 

#### start 
start an instance
#### stop
stop an instance
#### restart
restart an instance
#### status
show stats such as players, the map, uptime, port, ip 
#### say [message] 
executes svsay on the server
`mbii -i dueling say "Hello Everyone"` would say "Server: Hello Everyone"
#### rcon [rcon_commands]
`mbii -i legends rcon "myrconcommand argument"` would send this rcon command to the server
#### cvar key value
You can change CVAR values or just see what the value is using cvar command, for example 
`mbii -i open cvar g_authenticity 1` would change the mode
`mbii -i open cvar g_authenticity` would print the current the mode

## Plugins

Plugins allow for new functionality for a server to be built as a seperate python script and added to the server. 

A plugin has access to the instance that is running it and could be used to, for example. Do a certain action when a command is said by a user, or once every 2 minutes. 
It can even be used to do actions on the server based on external factors, such as coming from discord.

Plugins must be enabled in the config section, must have a number of additional config options need to be added to the config. Any plugin can request additional config information. The Example server json has the RTV plugin enabled by default. 

leaving your plugin line in config as `"plugins":{},` will disable all plugins

### Events

Plugins can "register" actions against events. For example, the plugin will have a method called "register_events" and adding a line such as 

`self.instance.event_handler.register_event("player_chat_command", self.say_hello)`

Will, if the plugin is enabled on an instance, call the method within the plugin `say_hello` when a user in game does a chat starting with `!` 

Some events come with additional arguements that you can use.  Here is a current list of events plugins can use, They come in a dictionary object as the first arguement

|Name|Arguements  |Description |
|--|--|--|
|before_dedicated_server_launch| None |  Runs before dedicated server starts
|after_dedicated_server_launch | None  |   Runs after dedicated server starts
|new_log_line                  | log_line | Log File changed
|player_chat_command           | message, player, player_id | ! prefix chat 
|player_chat                   | type, message, player, player_id | any and all chats, type is either TEAM or PUBLIC 
|player_connects               | player, player_id |  A new player connected
|player_disconnects            | player, player_id |  A player disconnected
|player_killed                 | fragger_id fragger, fragged_id, fragged, weapon | A player was killed
|player_begin                  |  player,player_id | A player entered the map (once per round, not per life)
|map_change                    |current_map, new_map|


### Services

You can also register services in your plugin. These are methods you want to start as a seperate process and for them to persist while the instance runs. Otherwise methods are only called when events happen. This allows you to potentially create your own events. 

For example using 
`self.instance.event_handler.run_event("my_custom_event",{"type": "NEW", "message": message, "player_id": player_id, "player": player}) `

The process handler will automatically start your service, and shut it down when the instance is stopped by keeping track of its PID. 

## Database

A small SQLite database is used to store ALL log lines, all kills, keep track of services, and keep track of player connections in a way that persists. 

For this reason the database can be used by external processes to query this information, or in a plugin, if for example, a discord bot wants to show when the last time a given player connected. 

Usablity is limited as there is no way beyond a name, to track a player between connections. 

## Get Involved
This is still a little rough round the edges, i am NOT a full python dev, if anyone is interested in doing further development on this or pushing pull requests into this thats all fine with me. 

### Still to do

Many things

- [ ] Re-Write the install file to be better and handle quicker updates without re-checking depedencies + get updates from github
- [x] Make process handler auto restart a failed service unless instance is being stopped
- [x] Make process handler auto restart instances at a given time rather than using crontab
- [ ] Create service checking for MBII updates, and doing update when all servers are empty. 
- [x] Create the Web GUI
- [ ] Web to create, and edit server.json files
- [x] Web to show database logs
- [ ] Web to handle bans
- [ ] Web to handle plugins
- [ ] Web to start / stop / restart instances
